Development Environment (CEM-009)
=================================

IDE (CEM-009-000)  
-------------------------------

Specification  🤖
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: ./CEM-009-000.rst

Motivation
~~~~~~~~~~

TODO

VS Code + Docker + Devcontainer + EC2 | AZ VM (CEM-009-001)  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Specification  🤖
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: ./CEM-009-001.rst

AWS Architecture Diagram
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Development environment (AWS)

Motivation
~~~~~~~~~~

- Docker engine for container hosting.
- Devcontainer to encapsulate project dependencies in a portable environment.
- VS Code is the recommended IDE (see CEM-008-000).
- Cloud-native approach: use AWS/AZ extensively. EC2 or AZ VM are recommended
  VMs for hosting development environments, enabling scalable compute/memory/network.

ONA (CEM-009-002)  
----------------------------

Specification  🤖
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. include:: ./CEM-009-002.rst

Motivation
~~~~~~~~~~

- Ease of use: available for Roche account holders with minimal onboarding.
- Secure environment: code and data remain within Roche's secure VPC.
- Fast onboarding: version-controlled devcontainer.json ensures consistent tooling.
- Personal IDE: supports VS Code, JetBrains, Cursor, or SSH.
- AI assistants: Claude code and agents via ONA agents for autonomous development.
- Scalable: decouples development from corporate laptop constraints.

Devcontainer (CEM-009-003)  
-------------------------------------

TODO

Trade-off CEM-008-001 vs CEM-008-002
-------------------------------------

TODO
