Introduction and Purpose (CEM-000)
==================================

The Catalyx Engineering Manifest (CEM) defines concise, enforceable
recommendations to ensure consistency, accelerate adoption via reusable
blueprints, and formalize business intent using state machines for Outcome
Driven Development (ODD).

Emphasis
--------

- **Unique IDs:** Each recommendation has a stable, traceable identifier.
- **Versioned Rules:** Recommendations evolve independently via versioning.
- **Actionable Blueprints:** Rules are paired with ready-to-use repositories.
- **Formal Intent:** Outcomes are modeled with machine-readable state machines.

Getting Started (CEM-000-000)  
-------------------------------------------

Back decisions with a CEM rule ID wherever possible:

- PR reviews
- Git hooks
- Technology choices (e.g., vector store database)

If a rule is missing or needs refinement, see ``CEM-000-001``.

Contributing (CEM-000-001)  
--------------------------

To add or refine a rule, follow ``CEM-001-000``.

.. warning:: Maintenance Overhead

   Use existing sessions (e.g., architecture reviews) to update the manifest
   immediately when decisions are made.

.. note:: Specifications, not Rules

   Follow recommendations, but alternative implementations are welcome if you
   document the choice and inform the team.

Agent Ingestion Guidelines (CEM-000-002)  
-----------------------------------------

Keep agent-loaded specs minimal and enforceable:

- Write enforceable specs in ``CEM-###-###.rst`` files only.
- Put context, rationale, and examples in ``CEM-###.rst`` (ignored by agent).
- Build exports only ``CEM-###-###.rst`` into ``manifest.json``; ``CEM-###.rst`` remains for humans.

Include (examples):

- Prescriptive rules the agent must enforce.
- Type-safety requirements for external data.
- Architectural constraints (ports/adapters; depend on interfaces).
- State management rules (immutability; dedicated UI stores).

Exclude (examples):

- Non-actionable tooling preferences.
- Cadence, meeting notes, or narrative rationale.
- ADRs or historical commentary.
- Platform choices that do not affect code generation.

Glossary (CEM-000-003)  
------------------------------------

.. list-table:: Glossary of Terms
   :widths: 15 25 45 15
   :header-rows: 1

   * - ID
     - Term
     - Semantics
     - Example
    * - GT1
       - Artifacts of Intent
       - Functional outcomes/behaviours vs. their implementation
       - CEM-004-000

